last Sunday last Sunday one of the
weirdest annual events on television
took place yet again get ready for the
lip gloss the spray tans the blood sweat
and sequins
[Applause]
beautiful and just a reminder to those
of you at home it is the year 2014 and I
am a fully clothed man standing in front
of a line of women in swimsuits awaiting
judgments beautiful yes last Sunday was
the Miss America pageant and through it
all the swimsuits the dance numbers the
inexplicable ventriloquism it was it was
very difficult not to think how the is
this still happening beauty pageants
haven't really made sense since an era
when people talked like this girls girls
girls everyone lovely and talented one
from nearly every state in the Union
including Alaska and you know why they
mention that because Alaska had only
just become a States back then in fact
in the early days it made sense to have
a contest with criteria like this the
very first years there was a literal
breakdown five points for the
construction of the head five points for
the limbs three points for the torso two
points for the lake three points for the
torso I think even back then that was
code hey I met this great Dame see she's
got a great torso c30 ford the torso you
should meet her house the construction
of our head it's ridiculous it's
ridiculous
but the only time the beauty pageants
are relevant nowadays is whenever
someone forwards you a link to something
like this I believe that our education
like such as in South Africa and the
Iraq everywhere like such as and I
believe that they
our education over here in the US should
help the US or should help South Africa
and should help the Iraq in the Asian
countries now
now to be fair the question she was
asked was can you do an impression of a
dictionary in a washing machine she
nailed that she nailed that it is easy
to make fun of pageant contestants but
which is really crazier that they
sometimes give stupid answers or that
they are almost always asked
ridiculously complex questions
government tracking of phone records has
been in the news lately is this an
invasion of privacy or necessary to keep
our country safe why or why not should
people who leak classified documents in
the name of public information be
charged with treason in recent weeks US
has released five detainees from
Guantanamo exchange for one US soldier
held captive in Afghanistan the US
policy is to leave no soldier behind you
think it's fair to sacrifice or swap
lives in order to hold this policy what
I totally agree with the guy in the
background there because I sincerely
doubt the intricacies of hostage
exchanges are going to be resolved by a
21 year old PR major and the star of
sharknado last Sunday this was an actual
question the savagery of the ISIS threat
to our security was demonstrated by the
gruesome videos of two journalists and
an aid worker being beheaded what should
our country's response be
that's right they asked one of the
contestants to solve Isis and she only
had 20 seconds to do it how did she do
this is an absolute outrage and
something definitely needs to be done
but I don't think America needs to be
the only one to do it I really think
it's important for the world for the UN
to come together and decide what's the
best thing United that we can do to
really come together as a bigger and
more impactful source to end this horrid
great thing that happening holy
that is a much better answer than I
could have done
[Applause]
that is a borderline better answer than
the president gave lastly in fact many
of last Sunday's contestants were
genuinely impressive and the Miss
America pageant would argue that's
because they're a classier organization
than their competitors which is frankly
not difficult Miss USA for instance is
owned by Donald Trump a clown made of
mummified foreskin and cotton candy but
he's he's pretty blunt about his
criteria well obviously it's great outer
beauty I mean we could say politically
correct that to look doesn't matter but
the look obviously matters like you
wouldn't have your job if you weren't
beautiful that the Miss USA beauty
pageant is overseen by one of the
ugliest souls on the planet Miss America
is supposed to be different from all
that Miss America is about something
more than just looks this is a
scholarship at gently Miss America funds
scholars it's a largest scholarship
program in the world for women it's easy
to think that this is just a beauty
pageant but this is a scholarship
pageant Miss America is right you need
to see them in bathing suits because as
we all know the intelligence portion of
the brain is located somewhere on the
upper thigh in fact Miss America trades
on their scholarship claims so much if
you pull the Miss America headquarters
this is what you hear thank you for
calling the Miss America Organization
the world's largest provider of
scholarships for women okay that is
suspiciously defensive right out of the
gate that is like Walter White saying
hello and welcome to this regular car
wash that's definitely not laundering
money for my math lab welcome welcome
if if it is actually true that Miss
America is the world's largest provider
of scholarships for women that's a
little bit weird because Miss America
does not offer scholarships to all women
only those who compete in its pageants
so to qualify for a scholarship you'll
need to certify not just that you've
never been married
but also that you are not now pregnant
and never have been
which of course makes sense Miss America
is supposed to be a role model for
children how can she be that if she's
got a child in tow who's constantly
looking up to her and those those are
just the official rules you need to
abide by if you want a shot at winning
one of their scholarships you're also
going to need access to a can of this
stuff but glue a spray adhesive
essential for keeping those bikini
bottoms on their bottoms just just think
about that for a second Oh how did the
scholarship interview go well my ass is
still sticky I think I've got it doesn't
just say it's the biggest scholarship
organization it backs this up with
numbers we're the nation's largest
scholarship program for young women but
forty five million dollars made
available annually forty-five million
that is an unbelievable amount of money
as in I literally didn't believe that
it's the kind of number that can get
stuck in your head and rattle around
there for days driving you crazy
making you wish for instance there was a
way to find out more find out more at
Miss America foundation.org and that is
where all this craziness began we went
to their website and to be honest it
wasn't a great sign but their about Us
page says we fund scholars
you really might want to uh you really
might want to but glue a D on to the end
of that word but it was known while
digging around on their site that we
discovered that Miss America and its
foundation are registered nonprofits
which mean they have to file public tax
forms so what we were looking for was
that crazy number forty five million
dollars what we found instead was that
in 2012 at the national level they spent
less than $500,000 in cash scholarships
leaving us a mere forty four and a half
million dollars short of what they say
they provide and at this point we really
had a clear choice we could have just
thought sure the numbers don't really
add up
but it's only Miss America who really
gives a or or we could try to pull
the tax forms from every state level
competition in the country because this
was starting to drive us insane
it's been a weird week we got 33 states
990 forms and attempted to contact
everyone else but even making the most
generous assumptions for every state and
local pageant that we didn't get
we couldn't get even close to 4 million
dollars when remember they are climbing
VIX 45 million dollars made available
annually at this point we were in way
too deep so we just called Miss America
which is when we first heard this thank
you for calling - Miss America
Organization the world's largest
provider of scholarships for women and
it turns out the key word there is
provider some schools offer scholarships
directly to pageant contestants and the
trick is Miss America counts all of them
not just the ones they can physically
take so for instance Miss Pennsylvania's
website says it offers the winners
scholarships to these four colleges and
that value of every single scholarship
is counted together despite the fact
that she is clearly going to attend at
most one because she's not going to
attend four colleges she's not James
Franco
furthermore miss Alabama in its 2012
finally said it provided nearly 2.6
million dollars in scholarships to just
one school troy university which blew my
mind because if that's true that must be
the single prettiest school anywhere in
america but when we contact detroit it
turns out the pageant got to that 2.6
million dollars by multiplying the value
of a single scholarship by 48 the number
of competitors who could theoretically
accept it even though the actual number
of contestants who accepted a
scholarship that year was and you are
not going to believe this
zero absolute zero meaning that the
difference between the money they
provided and the money they awarded was
all of the money they provided and at
this point we just had to stop because
it was 35 minutes ago and we had to take
this show but it does seem that two
things are true one Miss America gives
out way less than 45 million dollars in
scholarships and yet two whatever the
number is one thing does still seem to
be troublingly true the Miss America
Organization is actually the largest
provider of scholarships to women in the
world
yeah because even their lowest number is
more than any other women only
scholarship that we could find more than
the Society of Women Engineers whose
website is here more than the Patsy Mink
foundation here and more than the
Jeanette Rankin women's scholarship fund
here all of which you can donate to if
you want to change the fact that
currently the biggest scholarship
program exclusively for women in America
requires you to be unmarried with a
mint-condition uterus and also rewards
working knowledge of buttock adhesive
technology which is just a little bit
unsettling and in fact let me try to
explain why to the Miss America
Organization through the only medium it
seems to value
20-second conversations with women in
evening dresses and sashes
please join me tonight I'm proud to say
as of now we are the world's largest
provider of scholarships for women
because tonight
400 million $1 scholarships will be made
available to the winner of which she may
choose just one so let's bring out to
our first contestant miss first
contestant radiance question number one
um what does the continued existence of
the Miss America pageant say about how
women are viewed in America you have 20
seconds go
beginning with the Seneca Falls
convention in 1848 that spurred first
wave feminism the perception of women in
America has always been complex and
fluid while it is theoretically possible
that Miss America could evolve into a
purely academic scholarship organization
at this point in time the notion that
beauty pageants are about anything other
than outer beauty is belied both by the
continued existence of the swimsuit
portion and the fact that I'm expected
to answer this question in just 20
seconds thank you very much
musical and now please welcome our final
contender miss Kathy Griffin
miss Cathy will question when providing
access to scholarships is there any
place whatsoever for the judgment of a
woman's body oh I have no problem with
that at all wait really
nope no problem whatsoever as long as
men are subjected to the same demeaning
process let me show you what I mean
she's happy to get out here what exactly
are you doing all right I am judging you
as a host next to him all right John
walk that runway give us a twirl look
that's only 20% of your total score now
I'm giving this one to Giuseppe because
frankly he wins on muscle mass legs and
of course construction of the Hat okay
okay I get your points no let me explain
why I'm giving you a lower score I look
at yours Eppie and I want to have sex
with him I look at you and I want to
have sex with Giuseppe I'm a good person
Kathy you know what I am calling it
Giuseppe win
[Applause]
buttons are
Oh
[Applause]